src/content/blog/fork-in-the-road.md, before:

---
title: "The Fork in the Road: Leadership, Laravel, and What Comes Next"
description: "A personal story about choosing loyalty, finishing what I started, and the long arc of building something that lasts."
pubDate: "Jul 12 2025"
heroImage: "../../assets/fork-in-the-road.webp"
---

In June of 2019, Laravel lit a fire under my career. I was coming off years of data engineering work and easing into web development when I found it—a framework that matched the way I wanted to think, move, and create. It wasn’t just elegant; it made me productive in a way that felt exciting again. I wasn’t just writing code—I was crafting tools that made people’s jobs easier, smoother, better.

When Empower acquired MassMutual’s retirement business in early 2021, I carried that Laravel energy with me. What started as a simple web form quickly evolved into Olympus: a platform now supporting dozens of internal applications and used daily across the business. Olympus was never part of Empower’s target architecture. PHP wasn’t the future; we were a Java and Python shop. But the value was undeniable, and the adoption spread organically—because it worked. Because people needed it.

Over time, I went from writing every line of code to leading a team of engineers, shaping product roadmaps, managing resourcing, and designing operating models. The transition wasn’t seamless. I missed building. I missed the creative clarity of being close to the problem and closer to the solution. But I also uncovered something new: the challenge of leading through ambiguity, supporting other people’s growth, and watching systems thrive beyond my own authorship.

It hasn’t all been smooth. I’ve had to rebuild teams, adjust to sudden departures, navigate shifting leadership, and reconcile competing visions of what we were building and why. Some of the most formative moments came through that tension—learning when to speak plainly, when to listen longer, when to protect the team, and when to let things break and learn from the fallout. These lessons reshaped how I think about contribution, ownership, and growth—not just in others, but in myself.

And lately, a different kind of question has been taking root. One that’s not about promotions or job titles. One that whispers at the edge of every strategy session and architectural debate: _What would I build if I could build anything?_ What kind of company? What kind of culture? What kind of work?

It’s not today’s job. It might not be tomorrow’s either. But it’s there—quietly forming. A pull toward creating not just platforms, but environments. Not just tools, but principles. A space for thoughtful, technical, product-minded people to solve real problems with clarity and care. A future firm that’s still just a sketch in the margins, but taking shape one conversation, one lesson, one late-night notebook scribble at a time.

And now I’m at a fork.

One path leads toward Laravel itself—the ecosystem that ignited my love for the craft. At a time when I was searching for direction, it gave me both purpose and belonging. It helped me discover what building could feel like when the tools matched the way I think. It feels like the dream: working with a tool I admire, inside a community that helped shape who I am as a developer.

The other path is here, where I am now. The less glamorous one. The more complicated one. The one tangled in legacy, structure, expectations, and pacing that rarely matches the urgency I feel inside. But it’s also the path where Olympus lives. Where the team I’ve grown and mentored shows up every day to build something bigger than any one of us. Where the impact is real. And the vision isn’t done.

So I’m choosing it.

I’m choosing to stay.

I’m choosing to be a finisher.

Because Olympus deserves to be finished with care. Because the people who believed in it—and in me—deserve someone who doesn’t just start the fire, but tends it through the slow seasons too. Because this story still has chapters left, and I want to be the one who writes them.

I’m not closing the door on new adventures. They’ll come. They always do. But this one? This moment? It called for something deeper. Something quieter than ambition and louder than fear. It called for loyalty. Integrity. Commitment. The kind I’ve always respected in others and am finally ready to claim for myself.

The trail hasn’t been straight. But it’s been mine. And now, more than ever, I know exactly where I stand—right here, with my team, my product, and the fire I lit six years ago.

And I’m not done yet.

Commit message:

fix: edited fork in the road blog post

src/content/blog/fork-in-the-road.md, after:

---
title: "The Fork in the Road: Leadership, Laravel, and What Comes Next"
description: "A personal story about choosing loyalty, finishing what I started, and the long arc of building something that lasts."
pubDate: "Jul 12 2025"
heroImage: "../../assets/fork-in-the-road.webp"
---

In June of 2019, Laravel lit a fire under my career. I was coming off years of data engineering work and easing into web development when I found it—a framework that matched the way I wanted to think, move, and create. It wasn’t just elegant; it made me productive in a way that felt exciting again. I wasn’t just writing code—I was crafting tools that made people’s jobs easier, smoother, better.

When my team was absorbed into a larger organization during an acquisition, I carried that Laravel energy with me. What started as a simple internal tool evolved into a full platform, quietly spreading through the business. It was never part of the official architecture. The language wasn’t blessed. But it delivered value, fast. And it earned its place—not through mandate, but through usefulness.

Over time, I went from writing every line of code to leading engineers, shaping product roadmaps, managing resourcing, and designing how the work actually gets done. That transition wasn’t seamless. I missed building. I missed the creative clarity of being close to the problem and closer to the solution. But I uncovered something else: the challenge of leading through ambiguity, supporting other people’s growth, and watching systems thrive beyond my own authorship.

It hasn’t all been smooth. I’ve had to rebuild teams, adjust to sudden departures, navigate shifting leadership, and reconcile competing visions of what we were building and why. Some of the most formative moments came through that tension—learning when to speak plainly, when to listen longer, when to protect the team, and when to let things break and learn from the fallout. These lessons reshaped how I think about contribution, ownership, and growth—not just in others, but in myself.

And lately, a different kind of question has been taking root. One that’s not about promotions or job titles. One that whispers at the edge of every strategy session and architectural debate: _What would I build if I could build anything?_ What kind of company? What kind of culture? What kind of work?

It’s not today’s job. It might not be tomorrow’s either. But it’s there—quietly forming. A pull toward creating not just platforms, but environments. Not just tools, but principles. A space for thoughtful, technical, product-minded people to solve real problems with clarity and care. A future firm that’s still just a sketch in the margins, but taking shape one conversation, one lesson, one late-night notebook scribble at a time.

And now I’m at a fork.

One path leads toward Laravel itself—the ecosystem that ignited my love for the craft. At a time when I was searching for direction, it gave me both purpose and belonging. It helped me discover what building could feel like when the tools matched the way I think. It feels like the dream: working with a tool I admire, inside a community that helped shape who I am as a developer.

The other path is here, where I am now. The less glamorous one. The more complicated one. The one tangled in legacy, structure, expectations, and pacing that rarely matches the urgency I feel inside. But it’s also the path where my team lives. Where the people I’ve mentored and grown with show up every day to build something bigger than any one of us. Where the impact is real. And the vision isn’t done.

So I’m choosing it.

I’m choosing to stay.

I’m choosing to be a finisher.

Because this work deserves to be finished with care. Because the people who believed in it—and in me—deserve someone who doesn’t just start the fire, but tends it through the slow seasons too. Because this story still has chapters left, and I want to be the one who writes them.

I’m not closing the door on new adventures. They’ll come. They always do. But this one? This moment? It called for something deeper. Something quieter than ambition and louder than fear. It called for loyalty. Integrity. Commitment. The kind I’ve always respected in others and am finally ready to claim for myself.

The trail hasn’t been straight. But it’s been mine. And now, more than ever, I know exactly where I stand—right here, with my team, my product, and the fire I lit six years ago.

And I’m not done yet.

---

_The thoughts and opinions expressed in this post are my own and do not reflect those of my employer._
